#summary An introduction of the people working in q4e.

= Committers =

Committers are listed in by join date.

== Carlos S치nchez ==

My name is Carlos Sanchez, I'm from [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Coru%C3%B1a A Coru침a], Spain where I studied Computer Engineering. I've been involved in the Open Source for several years at the Apache Software Foundation and other projects. Currently I spend most of the year in Los Angeles, CA.

== Erle Mantos ==

Senior Software Engineer at Exist Global Inc.
  * Currently involved in the design and development of an open-source project called
q4e which aims to integrate maven with the Eclipse IDE.
  * Previously involved in the development of an open-source network management and monitoring application called Livetribe. 

== Abel Mui침o ==

Like, Carlos, I'm from A Coru침a (we even studied in the same faculty!), but now I've moved to Madrid. I've been always involved in Java projects and enjoyed Eclipse since I knew of it.

You can learn more about me on my [http://www.linkedin.com/in/amuino linked-in profile] or [http://ramblingabout.wordpress.com/ blog].

== Jake Pezaro ==
Originally from new zealand, I have been a java developer for the last
8 years working in various industries (consulting, finance, gaming and
beverages to name a few) in the uk & europe.  

I came to be involved in q4e while working for a gaming company in gibraltar. They had
implemented maven, and were constantly wanting to be able to analyze
dependency trees over large legacy projects (hundreds of
dependencies).  I worked on a crude solution to allow graphical
dependency analysis, which over several iterations grew into the
dependency analysis tool currently in q4e.  

I am currently planning to return to the uk and intend to work as a contractor.

== Michael Poindexter ==
I'm currently work for [http://www.qumu.com/ Qumu, Inc].  For the past 6 years I've been focused pretty much exclusively server side Java development with various companies (with a smattering of .NET and Swing development thrown in for good measure).  

I've always found the Eclipse architecture, particularly how it's designed to be completely extensible interesting, so over the years I've managed to write a few Eclipse plugins to integrate proprietary tools in the companies I've worked for into Eclipse.  

At work we have ~20 interdependent Maven projects that we've just migrated from Maven 1.x to Maven 2, so when I was looking for an Eclipse plugin I tried Q4E and found it was quite helpful.  I'm looking forward to helping Q4E move forward so I spend less time worrying about build issues at work (and hopefully everyone at work can stop asking me questions about Q4E when anything goes wrong :-) )

= Supporting companies =

[http://www.exist.com http://www.exist.com/images/exist_logo.jpg] 

Exist Global provides developer time to work on this project.

!YourKit is kindly supporting open source projects with its full-featured Java Profiler.
!YourKit, LLC is creator of innovative and intelligent tools for profiling
Java and .NET applications. Take a look at !YourKit's leading software products:
[http://www.yourkit.com/java/profiler/index.jsp YourKit Java Profiler] and
[http://www.yourkit.com/.net/profiler/index.jsp YourKit .NET Profiler].