#summary Index of features reported by the community for 1.0.0.
#labels Phase-Requirements,Featured

= Features for 1.0.0 =

This page contains the features suggested by q4e users to be included (you can contribute more [http://groups.google.com/group/q4e-users/browse_thread/thread/260d4a7c04d3316c in this thread]) in the 1.0.0 release.

It will serve for discussion and reference, although it will be eventually replaced by [http://code.google.com/p/q4e/issues/list?q=milestone%3A1.0.0 tickets in the issue tracker].

== Integrate Maven and Eclipse plugins ==
=== Support for integration between Maven and Eclipse RCP/Plugins ===

(Marcelo Alcantara)

_Need more info_

=== Integrate `pom.xml` and `manifest.mf` ===
I'd love to see integration with the maven osgi plugin and some way to integrate pom.xml and plugin.xml/manifest.mf.

(Josh Suereth)

_Is this done by [http://felix.apache.org/site/maven-bundle-plugin-bnd.html maven-bundle-plugin]?_

=== Resolve (bundle) dependencies on poms from Eclipse Runtime ===

The ability to depend on eclipse plugins from a maven-like repository (or treat your eclipse install as a maven repository)

(Josh Suereth)

== Open artifact search ==

For v1.0.0, I would love to see our artifact search integrated with
repository managers like archiva, etc ..

(Erle Mantos)

== Form based `pom.xml` editor ==
Form-based POM editor ala Manifest editor of eclipse.

(Erle Mantos)

_This has been in development since, at least 0.6.0... should be out before 1.0.0_

== Keyboard shortcuts ==
I would like to see keyboard shortcuts on 
commonly used stuffs to be implemented in q4e. Developers are more on 
keyboards rather than on mouse for faster development.

(Allan Ramirez)

== One way to clean ==
As long as mvn clean != Project -> Clean, I'd like to see 'clean' on
the context menu.  Project -> Clean seems to clean only classes and
test-classes.  In the case of war and ear packaging, they use build
directories which do not get cleaned.  So if a dependency or some file
is removed, it still exists in the build directory and will get
repackaged.  A proper clean has to be run by going to execute goal.

(Robert Dale)

== Nexus search ==
(Rodrigo Ruiz)

_Partial integration available on 0.7.0_

== Integration of commonly used eclipse plugins ==
Integration of some commonly used eclipse plugins on project import/
update: checkstyle-cs, PMD, findbugs, cobertura, etc. Maybe as
optional extensions, just like the dependency viewer.

(Rodrigo Ruiz)

_Need more information regarding what the integration would be_

== Maven suggestions also for site.xml files ==

For skin selection

(Rodrigo Ruiz)

== wysiwyg editor for apt documents ==

(Rodrigo Ruiz)

== Multimodule import on a single project ==
Being able to import a multimodule project in a single eclipse
project.
I know that this could have issues when there are weird dependencies
in the modules and also that it won't provide good isolation between
the modules, but I find *very* annoying when I checkout code I use for
reference and not for developing to have to allocate dozen projects to
it and not be able to use a single project like I do with m2eclipse.

(Stefano Bagnara)
