Some really useful testing strategy you can use to test 
this project.

= Introduction =

One of the "cleaner" ways to test this project
without polluting your main eclipse distribution 
is to add an extension location and putting the 
q4e plugins there.

Without an extension location, the q4e plugins are 
installed in your eclipse distribution directory
which means it will be placed alongside the main eclipse
plugins. 

The advantage of this approach is to enable you to
turn on/turn off the q4e installation and be easily able to 
delete it when you want to test a new version.

= Details =

*Creating the extension location*

- Download and unzip the pre-created extension location in the _Downloads_
  section to any directory. (http://q4e.googlecode.com/files/experimental-extensions.zip)


- In eclipse, _Help >> Software Updates >> Manage Configuration_ ,
  right click on the root element of the tree (_Eclipse SDK_), then
  _Add >> Extension Location_ , then indicate the directory of the archived file
  you just extracted.

Now you have an extension location.

*Installing the plugin*

- Install the plugin, _Help >> Software Updates >> Find and Install >> Select for new features to install_ , then click _New Remote Site_

- Type q4e on the dialog name and the update-site url (_http://q4e.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/updatesite/_) on the URL.

- Check the q4e then _Finish_.

- Just follow the dialog. After the license agreement part, you will be asked for the
features to install and in what location to install them. Click _Change Location_ , 
indicate the extension location you have just created.

- Just follow the rest of the dialogs.

Voila. Your q4e plugins are now installed in your extension location.

*Testing the new versions*

- Just delete anything under the _Features_ and _Plugins_ directory in your extension-location and install q4e on the same extension location.


